Historian-WARC-1
======================

Blog post here: http://ianmilligan.ca/2013/05/15/warc-to-topic-models/ and additional documentation on running it all
together on the command line here: http://ianmilligan.ca/2013/05/24/putting-it-all-together-warc-to-output/

I am just going to be tinkering here. It will create a workflow that brings together wget, WARC Tools, MALLET,
and various visualization tools introduced in _Programming Historian 2_ [http://programminghistorian.org].

I obviously didn't write WARC tools, as the license shows. Websites for them are here 
http://code.hanzoarchives.com/warc-tools and http://mandal.ca/web.cgi/HelpOnWarcTools. The latter
has seen functionality change, so I have included an older version that works with my program.

If you have any suggestions, comments, etc., please do not hesitate to let me know.

AT THIS POINT:
- <b>Historian-warc-toolkit.sh</b>
    For this, edit the name of the webpage you want to WARC.
    This script will download it using wget, generate a WARC file, and then generate full-text repositories
    of the website to explore. It then topic models the full text file.

- <b>WARC-to-Stanford.sh</b>
    This script takes the output from the previous one, and puts it into a format that the StanfordHCI/Termite viewer
    can read. It is not pretty, but saves manual formatting. The documentation for that viewer is exceptional and
    helps you install it. [https://github.com/StanfordHCI/termite]

- <b>All-Together.sh</b>
    This puts it all together, so you can theoretically change some of the variables and in one click go from 
    taking a WARC of a website and put it into the StanfordHCI/termite viewer. This one also includes the comamnds
    to initialize Termite if it's in the same directory.

- <b>Warc-Kwic.py</b> and <b>Warc.py</b>
    These two files (Warc.py contains some modules for Warc-Kwic.py to call) take you from the fulltext.txt file 
    generated by Historian-warc-toolkit.sh or All-Together.sh and generates a Keyword-in-Context visualization. For
    example, if you were curious about occurances of the term 'Internet' in the WARC file, tacking this onto the 
    script would let you quickly see if the web archive contained what you were looking for.

    Still under development, as it has too many duplicates (need to think if this is a pro or a con, probably depends
    on what the user is looking for) and isn't well integrated into the other tools yet. Still a start.

More work coming over the summer.

<b>Ian Milligan</b> [i2milligan@uwaterloo.ca]<br>
Department of History<br>
University of Waterloo, Ontario

License

All code in this main directory is by me, made available CC-BY.

Code in WARC directory is taken from older version of WARC-Tools, please note license in their respective
directories.
